README.md, before:

# FAST FOOD TECH CHALLENGE

# docker #node #yarn #typescript #fastify #prisma #postgres

This project is an API for a fast food system.

## Event Storming

[https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKXKeOYw=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKXKeOYw=/)

## Video

[Link to video that explain this project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Swbv0xAlRPw)

## Structure

This repository contains the source code for a project that implements a domain-driven design (DDD) with hexagonal architecture. The project structure is as follows:

```folder
project-root
│── src
│   ├── application
│   │   ├── controllers
│   │   │   ├── CustomerController.ts
│   │   │   ├── OrderController.ts
│   │   │   └── ProductController.ts
│   │   ├── dtos
│   │   │   ├── ComboDto.ts
│   │   │   ├── CustomerDtos.ts
│   │   │   ├── OrderDto.ts
│   │   │   └── ProductDto.ts
│   │   ├── routes
│   │   │   ├── CustomerRoutes.ts
│   │   │   ├── index.ts
│   │   │   ├── OrderRoutes.ts
│   │   │   └── ProductRoutes.ts
│   │   └── schemas
│   │       ├── CreateCustomer.ts
│   │       ├── CreateOrder.ts
│   │       ├── CreateProduct.ts
│   │       ├── DeleteProduct.ts
│   │       ├── EditProduct.ts
│   │       ├── IdentifyCustomerSchema.ts
│   │       ├── ListOrders.ts
│   │       └── ListProductsByCategory.ts
│   ├── config
│   │   └── app.ts
│   ├── core
│   │   ├── domain
│   │   │   ├── entities
│   │   │   │   ├── Combo.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── Customer.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── Order.ts
│   │   │   │   └── Product.ts
│   │   │   ├── events
│   │   │   │   ├── ComboEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── CustomerEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── OrderEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   └── ProductEvents.ts
│   │   │   ├── use-cases
│   │   │   │   ├── ComboUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── CustomerUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── OrderUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   └── ProductUseCase.ts
│   │   │   └── value-objects
│   │   │       ├── CPF.ts
│   │   │       ├── OrderStatus.ts
│   │   │       ├── PaymentStatus.ts
│   │   │       ├── ProductCategory.ts
│   │   │       └── ProductImage.ts
│   │   └── repositories
│   │       ├── ComboRepository.ts
│   │       ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│   │       ├── OrderRepository.ts
│   │       └── ProductRepository.ts
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── infra
│       └── repositories
│           ├── memory
│           │   ├── ComboRepository.ts
│           │   ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│           │   ├── OrderRepository.ts
│           │   └── ProductRepository.ts
│           └── prisma
│               ├── ComboRepository.ts
│               ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│               ├── index.ts
│               ├── OrderRepository.ts
│               └── ProductRepository.ts
├── tests
└── README.md
```

## Domain Model

### Product

- `Product.ts`: Defines the `Product` entity with properties such as `category`, `price`, `description`, and `images`.
- `ProductRepository.ts`: Interface for the product repository, including methods such as `addProduct`, `editProduct`, and `removeProduct`.
- `ProductEvents.ts`: Events like `ProductRegistered`, `ProductEdited`, and `ProductRemoved`.

### Order

- `Order.ts`: Aggregate managing orders, including methods to add products or combos to the order.
- `OrderRepository.ts`: Interface for the order repository, responsible for saving and retrieving orders.
- `OrderEvents.ts`: Events like `OrderCreated`, `OrderUpdated`, and `OrderConfirmed`.

### Customer

- `Customer.ts`: Entity representing the customer, including data such as `CPF`, `name`, and `email`.
- `CustomerRepository.ts`: Interface for the customer repository, including methods for creating and managing customer information.
- `CustomerEvents.ts`: Events like `CustomerRegistered` and `CustomerUpdated`.

### Combo

- `Combo.ts`: Aggregate for managing combos, which are collections of products.
- `ComboRepository.ts`: Interface for the combo repository.
- `ComboEvents.ts`: Events like `ComboCreated` and `ComboUpdated`.

## Domain UseCases

- `ProductUseCase.ts`: UseCases related to product management.
- `OrderUseCase.ts`: UseCases for handling orders, including confirmation and status updates.
- `CustomerUseCase.ts`: UseCases for managing customers, including registration and data updates.
- `ComboUseCase.ts`: UseCases for managing the creation and modification of combos.

Please refer to the individual files for more details on their implementation.

## Getting Started

### With Docker

1. Clone the repository.
2. Build the project.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose build
     ```

3. Start the application.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose up
     ```

### With Kubernetes

1. Clone the repository.

2. Build the app image and push it to Docker Hub

   - Run in the terminal

     ```bash
     sudo docker build -t <your_username>/<your_image_name>:<image_version>
     docker push <your_username>/<your_image_name>:<image_version>
     ```

3. Create PG database.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f /K8S/db
     kubectl apply -f /K8S/app
     ```


### Standalone

To run the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the dependencies.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose up db
     ```

3. Build the project.

   - Run in the other terminal

     ```
     yarn build
     yarn migrate
     ```

4. Start the application.

   ```
   yarn dev
   ```

5. Access the application [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)

## Run Swagger

Access the application [http://localhost:3000/documentation](http://localhost:3000/documentation)

or

Access the webpage from [swagger.json](https://viniciussantos45.github.io/fast-food-tech-challenge/swagger.html)

## Access database

1. Access container

   ```
   <!-- For Docker -->
   docker exec -it postgres_container bash

   <!-- For K8S -->
   kubectl exec -it <pod_name> bash
   ```

2. Conect database

   ```
   psql -U fast-food -d fast-food
   ```

3. List tables

   ```
   \dt
   ```

## Run test

### Unit test

After setup de application, run:

```
yarn test
```

### Integration test

After setup de application standalone, run:

```
yarn test:cucumber
```

## Diagrams

### System architecture
![System arquitecture](./public/Arquitetura.png)

### Kubernetes infrastructure
![Kubernetes App and DB diagram](./public/K8S_diagram.png)



## Contributing

Feel free to explore the code and make any necessary modifications to suit your needs.

### Commit description

Use the tags:

feat: (new feature for the user, not a new feature for build script) fix: (bug fix for the user, not a fix to a build script) docs: (changes to the documentation) style: (formatting, missing semi colons, etc; no production code change) refactor: (refactoring production code, eg. renaming a variable) test: (adding missing tests, refactoring tests; no production code change) chore: (updating grunt tasks etc; no production code change)

Ref.: [Semantic Commit Messages](https://gist.github.com/joshbuchea/6f47e86d2510bce28f8e7f42ae84c716#file-semantic-commit-messages-md)

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.

Commit message:

Add GitHub Actions workflow to build and publish Docker image
Add GitHub Actions workflow to build and publish Docker image.

* **Workflow File**: Create `.github/workflows/build-and-publish.yml` to automate the process of building and publishing the Docker image.
  - Trigger on every push to any branch and on pull requests to the `main` branch.
  - Check out the repository, set up Node.js, install dependencies, lint code using `super-linter`, and run tests.
  - Set up Docker Buildx, log in to GitHub Container Registry, build the Docker image, and conditionally publish it on merges to the `main` branch.

* **README.md**: Add a section about the new GitHub Actions workflow.
  - Describe the purpose of the workflow.
  - Explain how to trigger the workflow.
  - Mention the conditional publishing to GitHub Container Registry.

---

For more details, open the [Copilot Workspace session](https://copilot-workspace.githubnext.com/pedrolacerda/fast-food-tech-challenge?shareId=XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX).

README.md, after:

# FAST FOOD TECH CHALLENGE

# docker #node #yarn #typescript #fastify #prisma #postgres

This project is an API for a fast food system.

## Event Storming

[https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKXKeOYw=/](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVKXKeOYw=/)

## Video

[Link to video that explain this project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Swbv0xAlRPw)

## Structure

This repository contains the source code for a project that implements a domain-driven design (DDD) with hexagonal architecture. The project structure is as follows:

```folder
project-root
│── src
│   �
│   ├── application
│   │   ├── controllers
│   │   │   ├── CustomerController.ts
│   │   │   ├── OrderController.ts
│   │   │   �
│   │   │   └── ProductController.ts
│   │   ├── dtos
│   │   │   ├── ComboDto.ts
│   │   │   ├── CustomerDtos.ts
│   │   │   �
│   │   │   ├── OrderDto.ts
│   │   │   └── ProductDto.ts
│   │   ├── routes
│   │   │   ├── CustomerRoutes.ts
│   │   │   �
│   │   │   ├── index.ts
│   │   │   ├── OrderRoutes.ts
│   │   │   └── ProductRoutes.ts
│   │   └── schemas
│   │       ├── CreateCustomer.ts
│   │       ├── CreateOrder.ts
│   │       ├── CreateProduct.ts
│   │       ├── DeleteProduct.ts
│   │       ├── EditProduct.ts
│   │       ├── IdentifyCustomerSchema.ts
│   │       ├── ListOrders.ts
│   │       └── ListProductsByCategory.ts
│   ├── config
│   │   └── app.ts
│   ├── core
│   │   ├── domain
│   │   │   ├── entities
│   │   │   │   ├── Combo.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── Customer.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── Order.ts
│   │   │   │   └── Product.ts
│   │   │   ├── events
│   │   │   │   ├── ComboEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── CustomerEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── OrderEvents.ts
│   │   │   │   └── ProductEvents.ts
│   │   │   ├── use-cases
│   │   │   │   ├── ComboUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── CustomerUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   ├── OrderUseCase.ts
│   │   │   │   └── ProductUseCase.ts
│   │   │   └── value-objects
│   │   │       ├── CPF.ts
│   │   │       ├── OrderStatus.ts
│   │   │       ├── PaymentStatus.ts
│   │   │       ├── ProductCategory.ts
│   │   │       └── ProductImage.ts
│   │   └── repositories
│   │       ├── ComboRepository.ts
│   │       ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│   │       ├── OrderRepository.ts
│   │       └── ProductRepository.ts
│   ├── index.ts
│   └── infra
│       └── repositories
│           ├── memory
│           │   ├── ComboRepository.ts
│           │   ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│           │   ├── OrderRepository.ts
│           │   └── ProductRepository.ts
│           └── prisma
│               ├── ComboRepository.ts
│               ├── CustomerRepository.ts
│               ├── index.ts
│               ├── OrderRepository.ts
│               └── ProductRepository.ts
├── tests
└── README.md
```

## Domain Model

### Product

- `Product.ts`: Defines the `Product` entity with properties such as `category`, `price`, `description`, and `images`.
- `ProductRepository.ts`: Interface for the product repository, including methods such as `addProduct`, `editProduct`, and `removeProduct`.
- `ProductEvents.ts`: Events like `ProductRegistered`, `ProductEdited`, and `ProductRemoved`.

### Order

- `Order.ts`: Aggregate managing orders, including methods to add products or combos to the order.
- `OrderRepository.ts`: Interface for the order repository, responsible for saving and retrieving orders.
- `OrderEvents.ts`: Events like `OrderCreated`, `OrderUpdated`, and `OrderConfirmed`.

### Customer

- `Customer.ts`: Entity representing the customer, including data such as `CPF`, `name`, and `email`.
- `CustomerRepository.ts`: Interface for the customer repository, including methods for creating and managing customer information.
- `CustomerEvents.ts`: Events like `CustomerRegistered` and `CustomerUpdated`.

### Combo

- `Combo.ts`: Aggregate for managing combos, which are collections of products.
- `ComboRepository.ts`: Interface for the combo repository.
- `ComboEvents.ts`: Events like `ComboCreated` and `ComboUpdated`.

## Domain UseCases

- `ProductUseCase.ts`: UseCases related to product management.
- `OrderUseCase.ts`: UseCases for handling orders, including confirmation and status updates.
- `CustomerUseCase.ts`: UseCases for managing customers, including registration and data updates.
- `ComboUseCase.ts`: UseCases for managing the creation and modification of combos.

Please refer to the individual files for more details on their implementation.

## Getting Started

### With Docker

1. Clone the repository.
2. Build the project.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose build
     ```

3. Start the application.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose up
     ```

### With Kubernetes

1. Clone the repository.

2. Build the app image and push it to Docker Hub

   - Run in the terminal

     ```bash
     sudo docker build -t <your_username>/<your_image_name>:<image_version>
     docker push <your_username>/<your_image_name>:<image_version>
     ```

3. Create PG database.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```bash
     kubectl apply -f /K8S/db
     kubectl apply -f /K8S/app
     ```


### Standalone

To run the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Install the dependencies.

   - Run in the terminal

     ```
     docker compose up db
     ```

3. Build the project.

   - Run in the other terminal

     ```
     yarn build
     yarn migrate
     ```

4. Start the application.

   ```
   yarn dev
   ```

5. Access the application [http://localhost:3000/](http://localhost:3000/)

## Run Swagger

Access the application [http://localhost:3000/documentation](http://localhost:3000/documentation)

or

Access the webpage from [swagger.json](https://viniciussantos45.github.io/fast-food-tech-challenge/swagger.html)

## Access database

1. Access container

   ```
   <!-- For Docker -->
   docker exec -it postgres_container bash

   <!-- For K8S -->
   kubectl exec -it <pod_name> bash
   ```

2. Conect database

   ```
   psql -U fast-food -d fast-food
   ```

3. List tables

   ```
   \dt
   ```

## Run test

### Unit test

After setup de application, run:

```
yarn test
```

### Integration test

After setup de application standalone, run:

```
yarn test:cucumber
```

## Diagrams

### System architecture
![System arquitecture](./public/Arquitetura.png)

### Kubernetes infrastructure
![Kubernetes App and DB diagram](./public/K8S_diagram.png)

## GitHub Actions Workflow

### Purpose

The GitHub Actions workflow is designed to automate the process of building and publishing the Docker image for this repository. It ensures that the Docker image is built on every push to any branch and conditionally publishes it to GitHub Container Registry on merges to the `main` branch.

### Triggering the Workflow

The workflow is triggered automatically on every push to any branch. Additionally, it includes a conditional step that publishes the Docker image to GitHub Container Registry when changes are merged into the `main` branch.

### Conditional Publishing

The workflow includes a conditional step that checks if the current branch is `main`. If it is, the Docker image is published to GitHub Container Registry under the repository owner's profile.
